Hello there.
We are not done with the state classes.
Let's go ahead and do a quick recap of all the important features we looked at in this chapter.
The main benefit of master class is to serve it and close in class.
And so the functionality is kept close to the original class.
It also helps in avoiding class pollution.
And finally, they also lead to better design as nested classes helping modular using the functionality.
Nestor Classes are classified into two categories inner classes and static number classes in the classes
include non static member classes, anonymous classes and local classes and we looked at all four of
them.
Of these local classes are least frequently used.
While top level classes can have only public and default access modifiers, nested classes can be declared
with all four access levels.
Next property is about accessibility of members.
Nested class can access any member of the class and similarly another class can also access any member
of the nested class.
This would include private members to note that static member classes, however, cannot access instance
members of the enclosing class.
They can only access static members.
We also know that at the bytecode level there is no concept of nested class.
Every nested class is translated into a top level class and they are named as shown here.
Anonymous classes are named as author, class, name, or some number, while all other nested class
names have the name, order, class name dollar in our class name and compiler.
Does this for us?
The first nested class we discussed was non static member class.
It is used when the class object needs access to the enclosing object so that it can access instance
members of the enclosing object.
In that class object cannot even be created unless the enclosing object is already created.
So enclosing object is created first and then it is used to create the inner class object.
That object is simply an instance member of the enclosed object, just like any instance member, and
hence we refer to the inner class as non static member class.
That is, it is an instance member class.
Since an aircraft object needs access to the enclosing object, the inert class object would maintain
a hidden reference to the enclosing object and building such a hidden reference takes up space and time
due to the hidden reference.
Outer class object will not be garbage collected until another class object is alive.
If ever you have the need to implement an adapter, then go for nonstrategic member class.
All these methods return instances of non static member classes which produce different views of the
class object.
And here is a restriction and non static member class cannot have static members.
The reason is static members should be accessible without an object and that's not possible with a non
static member class.
As members of a non static member class are accessible only by creating an object of it, which is possible
only by creating an instance of the outer class.
So we are creating two objects here.
Next, we discussed anonymous classes, which were very interesting.
They are nameless and they are declared and instantiated at the point of use.
One common use case was to use them as function objects, which, according to an effective item, should
be used to define strategies as in the strategy pattern.
Not that a function object is stateless.
That is the only abstract method it exports operates on other objects that are passed as input.
Now such anonymous objects which act as function objects are frequently created.
Then the advice is to declare them using static final fields.
That is, we are essentially creating a singleton.
Finally we looked at static member classes and we should use them when we do not need access to the
end closing class instance.
We know that if we do not use the modifier static in the class declaration then it would become a non
static member class and a hidden reference will be created to the enclosing object which will take up
space and time.
A static numbered class is simply a static member of the enclosing class, and it means that it can
be accessed without having an instance of the enclosing class, just like in the case of a static field
or a static method.
And from within the static member class, we can only access static members of the enclosing class.
That's because it is a static member like a static method and hence cannot access any instance related
stuff in the outer class.
However, a static member class is like any other ordinary class.
It is just that it is declared inside another class.
So like a regular class, it can include both static as well as instance members.
It can have instance members too as it can be instantiated without the help of the enclosing class object.
Finally, these are the common use cases of static member classes.
First is to represent private components of enclosing objects.
Right.
They can be used to represent the components of enclosing objects, like in the case of node class in
hash map.
Second use case would be to represent strategies.
And third use case would be as a public helper class.
So that's the end of this chapter.
A nice thing is we not only looked at the syntax of nested classes, but we learned about why they are
needed.
And we also looked at how they are commonly used in practice.
I hope you enjoyed learning about nested classes and will be using them whenever you see a need for
them.
This is the rule.
Thank you and good bye for now.